[Instructor]
- Sometimes you have behavior,
that you need to perform within a class,
that requires the dependency injection to be completed,
but this behavior either needs to be done
before the application is ready for use,
or right before it's destroyed.
Enter into the picture, Lifecycle Methods.
While Spring is Starting up,
the system itself is not usable
and this can, occur in the same way during shut down.
Spring proxies are not always available
during object instantiation,
or after destruction has started.
This means that not everything is available
from a spring perspective,
including the framework itself
during the construction of an application
that you may need behavior-wise
in order to perform some task.
This will also again apply during the destruction phase
as you have no control over the order
of garbage collection and you need a way to do some work
before Spring goes out of scope.
One thing to note is that
these annotations we're going to talk about
for these life cycle methods,
utilize JSR two 50 annotations.
These are not Spring specific,
so you won't get Spring into your classes
when you use these.
So the first method that we're going to talk about,
is Post Construction
and post-construction as the name implies,
is a method that should be executed
after construction of the object.
Again in the spring world,
this allows us to construct the object
as part of the IOC lifecycle,
which we're going to talk about next,
but then do some work using Spring
before we hand it off to the actual run time
or use phase of the application.
The annotation on this method is @PostConstruct.
Now this method has some special cases.
It must be a void method.
It takes no parameters as the framework itself
will run this method.
One use that I've had for this,
is warming in memory Caches of data.
Now I used to work on a system that needed to
make both web service calls as well as database calls
to store some data in memory
and this was a perfect use case,
because both of these calls,
leverage spring abstractions.
So by using PostConstruct,
I had Spring available, but the application wasn't running,
in a state that this Cache would not be pre warmed.
This method is technically called,
after all property setting is completed.
Now we will talk about more about this,
during the Lifecycle chapter.
But it's important to know that you can also use
Optional Dependencies for your class
during this Post construct method.
Now this is a very simple snippet of code
of what this would look like.
So @PostConstruct public void init,
I usually call mine init just cause it makes sense.
Again, it's a parameter less method
and then you just do some work,
and you can leverage Spring within there as you need to.
Now Pre Destroy, as the name implies,
is a method that is executed
before the class itself is marked for garbage collection.
The annotation is @PreDestroy and this is very useful
and you need to capture some state
before the application closes,
and send it to a backing database again,
that may be using some form of a Spring abstraction.
Once again, this is a parameter less method
and it's also void.
So this is executed technically
right when the application context itself closes,
so encloses called on that context object.
And again, this is well before any garbage collection
can take place.
And once again, I provided a very simple code snippet
@PreDestroy public void destroy parameter less method.
You do some more work leveraging Spring,
and anything else you need to,
and you'll be guaranteed that this will be called,
when the application shuts down,
through normal operations before,
Spring itself goes out of context.